# Learning-Management-System
### PayPal VAP 2020 Mini-Project 1
A system developed using `Node.Js` and `Pug` for universities to facilitate management of courses. The system supports `admin`, `faculty` and `student` user types. The **admin** can `createUser` and `delUser` where user can have designation = 1 (faculty) or designation = 0 (student). The **faculty** can `create` course, `participate` in existing course, `delete` registration from course. The **student** can `subscribe` and `unsubscibe` to the courses. Necessary validations are performed and relevant messages are returned.
It supports API requests via `no-gui` interface. 

## How to Run

* Clone this GitHub repo to 'dir'
* Navigate to 'dir'
* Run `npm install` to install the dependencies
* Run `nodemon .\server.js` or `node .\server.js` to start a server instance of the project

## Dummy Data

| username | password | designation |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| admin    | 1234     | Admin [2]   |
| faculty1 | 1234     | Faculty [1] |
| faculty2 | 1234     | Faculty [1] |
| faculty3 | 1234     | Faculty [1] |
| student1 | 1234     | Student [0] |
| student2 | 1234     | Student [0] |
| student3 | 1234     | Student [0] |
| student4 | 1234     | Student [0] |
| student5 | 1234     | Student [0] |


## Concepts Applied

* **express.js** - web app framework
*  **pug** - view engine
* **joi** - data validation 
*  **lodash** - utility functions
*  **promises**

## Features

* Proper validations are performed and the responses include well defined messages.
* The system supports sessions to keep track of users and services. When a session is started, `auth_token` is generated by the server which needs to be passed in every request to provide authentication.
* In-memory operations (using JSON objects) for easy integration of database (mongodb..) in production.

### Three types of users: 
#### Admin (designation = 2)
The `home` page for admin
* provides facility to `create` and `delete` **student**, **faculty** accounts. 
Inputs required to create a new user: `username`, `name`, `password`, `designation`
Inputs required to delete user: `username`
* lists all courses (code, description, start date, duration in months, registrations under each faculty) 

#### Faculty (designation = 1)
The `home` page for faculty
* provides facility to `create` a new course
  Inputs required: `courseCode`, `courseName`, `startingDate`, `duration`. If the faculty tries to create a course with existing courseCode, the faculty will be added to the list of instructors for that course.
 * lists **'My courses'** - courses for which the faculty is a registered instructor
 * lists **'All courses'** - all courses offered by the university

Selecting a course and clicking **'Get Details'** button will trigger navigation to `course` page for that course.
The `course` page for faculty
*	lists course description, faculties taking the course, start date, status (has commenced?...), number of registrations, table of registrations (faculty: [students..])
*	provides facility to `delete` course if the faculty is a registered faculty for the course
	If this is the only registered faculty - the course record is deleted along with all registrations.
	Else - faculty is removed from the list of registered faculties along with all registrations under the faculty
* provides facility to `participate` in the course (i.e. join the registered faculty list) if the faculty is not a registered faculty for the course

#### Student (designation = 0)
The `home` page for student
 * lists **'My courses'** - courses to which the student has subscribed
 * lists **'All courses'** - all courses offered by the university

Selecting a course and clicking **'Get Details'** button will trigger navigation to `course` page for that course.
The `course` page for student
* lists course description, faculties taking the course, start date, status (has commenced?...), number of registrations, table of registrations (faculty: [students..], faculty under whom the student is registered)
* provides facility to `subscribe` to the course if the student is not already subscribed under any faculty AND the course has not commenced
Input required: `faculty` under which the student wishes to register
* provides facility to `unsubscribe` from the course if the student is already subscribed

## no-gui 

**'nogui': true** needs to be passed within the JSON body to get proper response while accessing endpoints.
**`auth_token` will be received as a response to the `/login` call. It needs to be passed as part of the JSON while accessing other endpoints.**
`message` field in the response includes relevant messages.

- `/login`:  Starts a new session for the user and returns `auth_token`. 
	Required: `username`, `password`
    
- `/addUser`: Accessible only by admin (designation = 2). Creates a new user.
Required:  `auth_token`, `username`,  `name`, `password`, `designation`
The `auth_token` is used to determine the designation of active user.
Returns relevant error messages if validation fails or duplicate username scenario.

- `/delUser`: Accessible only by admin (designation = 2). Deletes an existing user.
Required:  `auth_token`, `username`
The `auth_token` is used to determine the designation of active user.
Returns relevant error messages if validation fails or username doesn't exist.
    
- `/course`:  Returns details (code, description, start date, duration in months, status, registrations under each faculty) for the requested course.
Required: `auth_token`, `courseCode`.
Returns relevant error messages if validation fails or course doesn't exist.
    
- `/add`:  Accessible only by faculty (designation = 1) and admin (designation = 2). Adds a course to the database. 
Required: `auth_token`,  `courseCode`,  `courseDesc`,  `courseStartDate`, `courseDuration`.
If course code already exists, the faculty is added to the registered instructors list for the course and relevant message is returned.
Returns relevant error messages if validation fails.

- `/participate`:  Accessible by faculty (designation = 1). Adds faculty to the registered instructors list for the course 
Required: `auth_token`,  `courseCode`
Returns relevant error messages if validation fails or course doesn't exist.
    
- `/delete`: Accessible only by registered faculty for the course. If this is the only registered faculty - the course record is deleted along with all registrations. Otherwise, faculty is removed from the list of registered faculties along with all registrations under the faculty.
Required: `auth_token`,  `courseCode`
Returns relevant error messages if validation fails or course doesn't exist.
    
- `/subscribe`: Accessible only by student (designation = 0). Subscribes a student to a course. 
Required:  `auth_token`, `courseCode`
Returns relevant error messages if validation fails or the course start date has passed.
    
- `/unsubscibe`: Accessible only by student (designation = 0). Unsubscribes a student from a course.
Required:  `auth_token`, `courseCode`
Returns relevant error messages if validation fails or the course start date has passed.

- `/logout`: Ends the session. 
Required: `auth_token`

- `/`: Returns a list of all possible API endpoints. 


